# OpenSource
In the online world we learn about open source software. Open Source is basically software where the original source code is completely available to the public, free of cost. The public is free to look at the code, modify and redistribute it. Even though it may not be the most widely known, a software called as Linux is the most used open source operating system. Linux was founded in 1991 by Linus Torvalds, a very prominent software engineer who wanted to purchase the software UNIX but did not have enough money. Linux is often overshadowed by Microsoft so many people do not know much about it, however it is very prevalent in everyone’s online lives through companies like Amazon, Instagram and many others. After learning more about Linux and open source in itself, I believe that open source is the future of technology. Most arguments supporting open source are made up of the fact that it is free of charge. Although this is a huge reason why open source is important, there are other reasons under the surface that people do not usually know of. For example Microsoft, one of the biggest rivals of open source, has open sourced their primary development framework. Other similar companies and opponents have done the same thing. Some of the largest names in technology today actively contribute to the open source community, even though we do not always see it on the surface. Another reason I believe open source is the future relates to bugs in the software. Bugs are inevitable, but with open source you are able to have the right minds working together to figure out a quick solution to the problem. With other software’s, details around bugs are often not publicized because they will have an affect on the overall company and their profits. With open source, since you have access to the source code you can apply fixes on your own time and these issues are generally solved and released faster. There are also many arguments against proprietary software regarding ethics. With the publisher controlling the software, there is an argument that there is potential for the software to be used immorally through spying, or snooping. This argument can also go against open source because there are so many people with access to the source code, that some could end up having very unethical intentions. Open source is known to be highly reliable to the user because it is constantly improving due to the amount of people that are able to access the source code. There are also downfalls of open source software. Many people argue that open source are less user friendly and frustrating to work with. This can possibly effect efficiency on a project where you may consider investing in a different software that is easier to use. Closed source software is also known to give the user more support which comes with paying the price. This may be needed if you are not very technically skilled in the field. '
